So, before actually using Flexbox in practice,
I wanna show you the philosophy behind Flexbox
and show you the main properties that we can use
in order to build Flexbox layouts.
So, what is Flexbox actually?
Well, Flexbox is a new module in CSS3
that makes it very easy to align elements to one another
in different directions and orders
and also to change dis-alignments if necessary,
like for example, for responsive design.
And this works perfectly even if you have no idea
about the dimensions of these elements
because the main idea behind Flexbox
is to actually give the container
the ability to expand and to shrink elements
to best use all the available space.
So, with Flexbox, you can easily replace float layouts
with much less and much more readable and logical code.
And because of that,
Flexbox completely changes the way that we build layouts,
especially one-dimensional layouts
because that's where Flexbox really shines.
For two-dimensional layouts,
there are actually better ways of building these,
like using CSS grid layouts
as I'm going to show you later in the course.
So, for all of these reasons,
I'd like to say that Flexbox is a true revolution in CSS.
It makes our lives as CSS developers so much easier.
And there are actually not that many concepts behind Flexbox
that you need to understand in order to use it.
But what you need to know is this.
So first of all, the element on which we use Flexbox
is called the Flex container.
And all we have to do in order to create a Flex container
is to set its display property to flex. Simple as that.
We can also set it to flex-inline,
which will then create a Flex container
that behaves like an in-line element,
but I almost never use that one, okay?
Then, all the direct children of the Flex container
are called the Flex items.
Now, the direction which these Flex items are laid out
is called the main axis,
which is represented with this arrow here.
Then the other perpendicular axis
is simply called the cross axis.
Now, it's important to be aware of these names
because we can change the direction of the main axis,
and also because there are different ways
of aligning elements both along the main axis
and the cross axis.
So, just keep these concepts in mind
so that you can fully understand
how the different Flexbox-related properties work.
And actually, that's what we're going to talk about next.
So, the Flexbox specification defines a couple of properties
that we use on the Flex container
in order to position and align all the Flex items.
And then some other properties that we use directly
on the Flex items themselves.
Of course I'm gonna show you all of these properties
over the course of this section
and the project that we built here.
But for now,
I just wanna give you a very brief overview over all of them
so that you can get an idea of how Flexbox works
and how many properties there are and how they work.
Maybe you can actually print out the slide
and use it as a cheat sheet throughout this section.
I'm sure that would be really helpful.
Okay. But now let's start with the properties
that we use on the container.
First up, there's one called flex-direction,
which specifies in which direction the main axis goes.
So I have here the name of the property
and then the possible values it can take,
where the first one is the initial value.
And that means that it's the default, right?
So, the direction can go as a row,
which is the default direction
in the one you see in the graphic up there.
But it can also go in the opposite direction
and even up or down, which will then form a column, alright?
Now, this is obviously much easier to visualize in practice
but again, for now I just wanna let you know
that these properties exist.
Okay? Next, there is flex-wrap,
which simply defines if the Flex items
should wrap into a new line if there is not enough space
in the Flex container or not.
Then, we have justify-content, and this one defines
how the Flex items will be aligned along the main axis.
Okay?
So it's important to know where the main axis is actually.
Next, there's the align-items property,
which is very similar to justify-content with a difference
that this one defines how the Flex items will be aligned
along the cross axis, not the main axis.
So, align-items is many times used
together with justify-content, and to me,
these two are the most important Flexbox properties of all.
And then finally, there is align-content,
which only applies when there is more than one row
of Flex items.
In that case, align-content controls
how the rows are aligned along the cross axis
if there is some empty space.
So again, we're gonna look at this in code
starting in the next lecture, alright?
Now, about the properties for Flex items,
the first one is called align-self,
which is very similar to align-items
but for one individual Flex item.
So imagine for example, that we set align items to center,
but then we want one of the items
to be aligned to the bottom.
And so we can use align-self for that, okay?
Next up, there is order,
which defines the order in which one specific Flex item
should appear inside the container.
And this is really helpful to reorder items
for example for smaller screens.
And now finally, we have three properties that together,
basically helps Flexbox decide on the width of a Flex item.
So, with flex-grow, we define how much an item can grow.
With flex-shrink, we define how much it can shrink.
And with flex-basis, we can define its base width.
And there's actually a shortened property of these,
which is simply called flex.
And this one is actually the one that should be used.
Alright, and all of these is of course,
much easier to explain with code,
and so that's what we're gonna start doing
right in the next lecture.
So, see you there.